ATTESTATION AND VERIFICATION FAILURES

Purpose

This is the short reference for incomplete attestations, failed evaluations, and
verification results that need attention. The dashboard shows the same code and
next action on the record card, table, and overview.

HOW TO READ A RECORD

Passed means the evaluation or verification finished successfully.
Pending means the operation was accepted but has no final result yet.
Failed means a check finished and did not pass.
Needs correction means the request is missing valid input.
Unavailable means the selected service or template could not be reached.
Error means the service could not complete or save the operation.

Every incomplete record should contain:

- code: stable failure identifier
- title: short explanation for the user
- summary: what the result means
- evidence: returned error, failed check, or missing field
- next action: the most useful correction or retry step
- retryable: whether trying again can reasonably help

ATTESTATION AND EVALUATION FAILURES

EVALUATION_PENDING
The request was accepted, but the processor has not written a result.
Check the request again after processing. Retrying immediately can create a
duplicate request.

SCHEMA_VALIDATION_FAILED
The data does not match the selected schema. A required field can be absent,
or a value can have the wrong type or format.
Compare the payload with the schema, correct it, then submit again.

JQ_CHECK_FAILED
The JQ expression returned a failed result. The referenced property may be
missing, empty, or outside the condition in the expression.
Inspect the expression and the values used by it before retrying.

GREAT_EXPECTATIONS_FAILED
The tabular expectation did not pass. Common causes are null values, a bad
column name, an invalid type, or a value outside the configured expectation.
Review the expectation details and the mapping from the payload to columns.

TEMPLATE_RENDER_FAILED
The template could not be turned into an implementation. A variable may be
missing, incorrectly named, or incompatible with the template.
Check the template variables and render the requirement again.

INVALID_TEMPLATE_INPUT
The template model is incomplete or has a wrong value type. This is an input
error, not a failure in the evaluation engine.
Fill in each required variable using the type shown by the template.

UNKNOWN_TEMPLATE
The selected template is not available in the current gateway. It may have
been deleted, belong to another environment, or have become unavailable.
Refresh the template list and choose an available template.

MISSING_REQUIRED_DATA
The request does not contain all data required by the contract.
Add the missing field or select a contract that matches the data being sent.

FRESHNESS_FAILED
The timestamp is older or newer than the allowed freshness window.
Send a current observation or review the freshness rule in the contract.

RANGE_FAILED
A measured value is below the minimum or above the maximum allowed value.
Correct the value or review the configured range before submitting again.

GATEWAY_UNAVAILABLE
The dashboard could not reach the DVA gateway. No conclusion about the data
should be drawn from this result.
Check gateway health and try again when the service is available.

PROCESSING_TIMEOUT
The evaluation did not return within the expected time. The final state may
be unknown, so keep the request ID when contacting support.
Retry after checking processor health. Avoid repeated retries while the first
operation may still be running.

QUEUE_FAILURE
The gateway accepted the request but could not hand it to the processing
service or message transport.
Retry when the gateway and transport are healthy.

PERSISTENCE_FAILURE
The evaluation completed, but its result could not be written to storage.
Do not assume the result was recorded. Retry once the storage service is
healthy and keep the request ID.

UNKNOWN_FAILURE
The service returned an error without a more specific reason.
Read the evidence, check gateway health, and retry only when the input is
known to be valid.

VERIFICATION FAILURES

VERIFICATION_PENDING
The presentation exchange started but no final verification result exists.
Wait for the exchange to finish and refresh the record. Do not treat pending
as verified.

VERIFICATION_REJECTED
The verifier received the presentation but could not accept its claims. The
requested attribute may be absent, incorrect, expired, or not trusted.
Compare the requested attributes with the presentation and request a current
credential when needed.

CREDENTIAL_REVOKED
The credential was found, but its issuer no longer considers it valid.
Do not use it for a new verification. Request a replacement credential.

COMMON CHECK ORDER

1. Confirm that the request reached the gateway.
2. Confirm that the selected template and variables are available.
3. Confirm that required data and timestamps are present.
4. Read the engine evidence for the failed field or expectation.
5. Correct the data or contract rule before retrying.
6. For transport, timeout, or storage errors, check service health first.
7. For verification rejection, inspect the credential status and claims.

EXAMPLE EVALUATION RESULT

{
  "engine": "SCHEMA",
  "timestamp": "2026-08-23T10:15:00Z",
  "success": false,
  "details": "required field customer_id is missing",
  "error": null
}

The dashboard maps this to SCHEMA_VALIDATION_FAILED, keeps the engine detail
as evidence, and tells the user to add customer_id before submitting again.
